##  Add a pointer

This application presents a set of models that can be placed on the AR scene. We could use drag and drop to select one of the models and drag it onto the view. However, what seems to work best is to just  _look_  at where you want to place the model and tap it. This keeps your fingers out of the way so you can see better, and also makes it less cumbersome to hold the phone in the right place as dragging.

To do this, we'll add a pointer in the form of an overlay. The overlay will always be centered on the screen, and when we take a picture of the scene later, the pointer will not be in the image.

The View overlay needs a  _Drawable_**_,_** so click Menu **File>New>Java Class**  to make a new class named  **`PointerDrawable.`**  This extends  **`Drawable`**, let's set the Superclass to  **`android.graphics.drawable.Drawable`**

Click on the red "light bulb" in the editor and select "Implement Methods". This will generate the placeholder methods.

Our pointer will have 2 states, enabled, which means an object can be dropped on the scene at that location, and disabled, when it can't.

We need 2 member variables:

-   Paint object for drawing.
-   Boolean flag for indicating enabled or disabled.

Add these fields at the top of the class.

```
private var paint = Paint()  
private var enabled: Boolean = false
```

Add a getter and setter for enabled

```
fun isEnabled(): Boolean {  
    return enabled  
}  
  
fun setEnabled(enabled: Boolean) {  
    this.enabled = enabled  
}
```

Now implement the  `draw`  method. We'll draw a circle in green when enabled, and an X in gray when disabled.

```
override fun draw(canvas: Canvas) {  
    val cx = (canvas.width / 2).toFloat()  
    val cy = (canvas.height / 2).toFloat()  
    if (enabled) {  
        paint.color = Color.GREEN  
  canvas.drawCircle(cx, cy, 10f, paint)  
    } else {  
        paint.color = Color.GRAY  
  canvas.drawText("X", cx, cy, paint)  
    }  
}
```

That's sufficient for our purposes, we can ignore implementing the other methods.
