# Add the Sceneform ArFragment

There are several aspects of making a great AR experience that involve interacting with multiple views. This includes things such as displaying a graphical indicator that the user should move the phone in order for ARCore to detect planes and handling gestures for moving and scaling objects. To do this, you'll add  **ArFragment** to the  **`app/res/layout/content_main.xml`**  file.

Open content_main.xml and let's add the fragment and the view. Here's the text of the layout file, but feel free to use the graphical view if that is more comfortable for you.

Replace the existing  `TextView`  element with the fragment:

```
    <fragment
   android:id="@+id/sceneform_fragment"
   android:name="com.google.ar.sceneform.ux.ArFragment"
   android:layout_width="match_parent"
   android:layout_height="match_parent" />
```

## Add ARCore AndroidManifest entries

ARCore requires specific entries in the AndroidManifest. These declare that the camera will be used by the application, and that the AR features are used along with designating the application as requiring ARCore to run. This last metadata entry is used by the Play Store to filter out applications for users on devices that are not supported by ARCore.

Open  **`app/manifests/AndroidManifest.xml`**  and in the  **`<manifest>`**  section add these elements:

```
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.ar" android:required="true" />
```

Then add the metadata in the  **`<application>`**  section:

```
<meta-data android:name="com.google.ar.core" android:value="required" />
```

## Add the ArFragment field

We'll be referencing the fragment a lot as we work with our AR scene. To make things easier, open  **`MainActivity.kt`**  and add a member variable at the top of the class:

```
private var fragment: ArFragment? = null
```

**Remember to Import classes!**

-   Remember that all classes not in the current class's package need to be imported!
-   In Android Studio you can do this by pressing ⌥-return on a Mac, or Alt + Enter on Windows.

Initialize it at the bottom of the  **`onCreate()`**  method. Since we're using a fragment, we need to use the fragment manager to find the fragment:

```
fragment =  supportFragmentManager.findFragmentById(R.id.sceneform_fragment) as ArFragment
```

Great! Now we have the minimum amount of code to start using ARCore and make sure it works. Next, let's try it out!
